hi I'm Allen Stein professional
basketball strength and conditioning
coach and thank you for purchasing this
DVD from hoops King on improving your
first step as a basketball player your
strength & Conditioning lays the
foundation for your entire game and if
you can picture a pyramid the wider and
broader that foundation the higher your
potential peak and that's why the best
players are in the best shape see if you
can improve your explosiveness your
quickness your reaction and your
basketball specific conditioning you can
perform your skills at a much higher
level you can perform them with more
efficiency and most importantly you can
perform them longer before fatigue sets
in today's workout will be done in
real-time and we've got a wide variety
of players we've got males and females
from a variety of different ages and
levels and we're going to go through an
actual workout design to improve your
first step now in the MVP DVD we covered
vertical explosion your ability to jump
higher today we're going to cover
explosiveness from a movement standpoint
from a lateral standpoint and we're
going to do that by strengthening the
muscles of the legs and hips and ankles
and knees and core and making sure that
players move more efficiently so that's
the goal of today's workout
now in regards to including
explosiveness and improving first step
we need to make sure that we're doing
some strength movements most of the time
when people think of strength they
picture doing things in the weight room
doing a barbell squat doing a leg press
that is certainly an aspect of strength
training but it's not the only way to do
it as we mentioned earlier in the
workout a lunge is probably the most
functional move you'll use as a
basketball player if you can picture a
defender in front of me right now and
I'm going to make a move and I rip and I
get my shoulders and chest and hips
below the defenders and I'm in this
position you can see right now I'm in a
lunge but the key is I'm not doing a
perfect forward lunge per se I'm doing
kind of a multi angular lunge so when we
do our lunge drills and lunge exercises
we're going to do them from all
different angles and all different
planes of motion we're going to just
hold a basketball and keep with our
consistent theme but if you at home need
additional resistance you can hold a
medicine ball or in this case you can
actually hold dumbbells as you get
stronger and begin to progress you can
hold heavier and heavier dumbbells now
what we'll do gang our left foot will
consider our pivot foot and we're going
to do a forward and a reverse lunge but
we're not going to stop in between so
we're going to hold the ball here we're
going to step out and lunge and then
explode back into a reverse lunge so
it's here here this foot really never
moves and I'm not touching in between
now it's important from a coaching
standpoint here's what we're looking for
on our checklist you step out as far as
you possibly can so I don't want to see
any tiny steps you step out as far as
you can you keep your your shoulders
your hips and your knees and ankles
everything squares of the direction that
you're facing and then we'll push heart
through your heel in order to come back
we're going to do ten of those every
step is one lunge you're going to do one
two three so it's five of each so let's
use our left foot as our pivot foot
start in an athletic stance when I say
go you're on your own you step forward
with your right foot and then back with
your right foot and you just count out
ten on your own ready go
yep and then push back
explode that there you go turn it into a
little bit of an explosive exercise
you're pushing as hard as you can
yep once you get ten just stand straight
up I'll know you're finished